To get started with Docker Engine on CentOS, make sure you [meet the prerequisites](#prerequisites), then [install Docker](#installation-methods).

Prerequisites[🔗](#prerequisites)
---------------------------------

### OS requirements[🔗](#os-requirements)

To install Docker Engine, you need a maintained version of one of the following CentOS versions:

*   CentOS 7
*   CentOS 8 (stream)
*   CentOS 9 (stream)

Archived versions aren’t supported or tested.

The `centos-extras` repository must be enabled. This repository is enabled by default, but if you have disabled it, you need to [re-enable it](https://wiki.centos.org/AdditionalResources/Repositories).

The `overlay2` storage driver is recommended.

### Uninstall old versions[🔗](#uninstall-old-versions)

Older versions of Docker went by the names of `docker` or `docker-engine`. Uninstall any such older versions before attempting to install a new version, along with associated dependencies:

```
$ sudo yum remove docker \
                  docker-client \
                  docker-client-latest \
                  docker-common \
                  docker-latest \
                  docker-latest-logrotate \
                  docker-logrotate \
                  docker-engine


```

It’s OK if `yum` reports that none of these packages are installed.

Images, containers, volumes, and networks stored in `/var/lib/docker/` aren’t automatically removed when you uninstall Docker.

Installation methods[🔗](#installation-methods)
-----------------------------------------------

You can install Docker Engine in different ways, depending on your needs:

*   You can [set up Docker’s repositories](#install-using-the-repository) and install from them, for ease of installation and upgrade tasks. This is the recommended approach.
    
*   You can download the RPM package and [install it manually](#install-from-a-package) and manage upgrades completely manually. This is useful in situations such as installing Docker on air-gapped systems with no access to the internet.
    
*   In testing and development environments, you can use automated [convenience scripts](#install-using-the-convenience-script) to install Docker.
    

### Install using the repository[🔗](#install-using-the-repository)

Before you install Docker Engine for the first time on a new host machine, you need to set up the Docker repository. Afterward, you can install and update Docker from the repository.

#### Set up the repository

Install the `yum-utils` package (which provides the `yum-config-manager` utility) and set up the repository.

```
$ sudo yum install -y yum-utils

$ sudo yum-config-manager \
    --add-repo \
    https://download.docker.com/linux/centos/docker-ce.repo


```

#### Install Docker Engine

1.  Install Docker Engine, containerd, and Docker Compose:
    
    *   Latest
    *   Specific version
    
      
    
    To install the latest version, run:
    
    ```
     $ sudo yum install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-buildx-plugin docker-compose-plugin
    
    
    ```
    
    If prompted to accept the GPG key, verify that the fingerprint matches `060A 61C5 1B55 8A7F 742B 77AA C52F EB6B 621E 9F35`, and if so, accept it.
    
    This command installs Docker, but it doesn’t start Docker. It also creates a `docker` group, however, it doesn’t add any users to the group by default.
    
    To install a specific version, start by listing the available versions in the repository:
    
    ```
     $ yum list docker-ce --showduplicates | sort -r
    
     docker-ce.x86_64  3:18.09.1-3.el7                     docker-ce-stable
     docker-ce.x86_64  3:18.09.0-3.el7                     docker-ce-stable
     docker-ce.x86_64  18.06.1.ce-3.el7                    docker-ce-stable
     docker-ce.x86_64  18.06.0.ce-3.el7                    docker-ce-stable
    
    
    ```
    
    The list returned depends on which repositories are enabled, and is specific to your version of CentOS (indicated by the `.el7` suffix in this example).
    
    Install a specific version by its fully qualified package name, which is the package name (`docker-ce`) plus the version string (2nd column) starting at the first colon (`:`), up to the first hyphen, separated by a hyphen (`-`). For example, `docker-ce-18.09.1`.
    
    Replace `<VERSION_STRING>` with the desired version and then run the following command to install:
    
    ```
     $ sudo yum install docker-ce-<VERSION_STRING> docker-ce-cli-<VERSION_STRING> containerd.io docker-buildx-plugin docker-compose-plugin
    
    
    ```
    
    This command installs Docker, but it doesn’t start Docker. It also creates a `docker` group, however, it doesn’t add any users to the group by default.
    
    * * *
    
2.  Start Docker.
    
    ```
     $ sudo systemctl start docker
    
    
    ```
    
3.  Verify that Docker Engine installation is successful by running the `hello-world` image.
    
    ```
     $ sudo docker run hello-world
    
    
    ```
    
    This command downloads a test image and runs it in a container. When the container runs, it prints a confirmation message and exits.
    

You have now successfully installed and started Docker Engine. The docker user group exists but contains no users, which is why you’re required to use sudo to run Docker commands. Continue to [Linux postinstall](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/) to allow non-privileged users to run Docker commands and for other optional configuration steps.

#### Upgrade Docker Engine

To upgrade Docker Engine, follow the [installation instructions](#install-using-the-repository), choosing the new version you want to install.

### Install from a package[🔗](#install-from-a-package)

If you can’t use Docker’s repository to install Docker, you can download the `.rpm` file for your release and install it manually. You need to download a new file each time you want to upgrade Docker Engine.

1.  Go to [https://download.docker.com/linux/centos/](https://download.docker.com/linux/centos/) and choose your version of CentOS. Then browse to `x86_64/stable/Packages/` and download the `.rpm` file for the Docker version you want to install.
    
2.  Install Docker Engine, changing the path below to the path where you downloaded the Docker package.
    
    ```
     $ sudo yum install /path/to/package.rpm
    
    
    ```
    
    Docker is installed but not started. The `docker` group is created, but no users are added to the group.
    
3.  Start Docker.
    
    ```
     $ sudo systemctl start docker
    
    
    ```
    
4.  Verify that Docker Engine installation is successful by running the `hello-world` image.
    
    ```
     $ sudo docker run hello-world
    
    
    ```
    
    This command downloads a test image and runs it in a container. When the container runs, it prints a confirmation message and exits.
    

You have now successfully installed and started Docker Engine. The docker user group exists but contains no users, which is why you’re required to use sudo to run Docker commands. Continue to [Linux postinstall](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/) to allow non-privileged users to run Docker commands and for other optional configuration steps.

#### Upgrade Docker Engine

To upgrade Docker Engine, download the newer package file and repeat the [installation procedure](#install-from-a-package), using `yum -y upgrade` instead of `yum -y install`, and point to the new file.

### Install using the convenience script[🔗](#install-using-the-convenience-script)

Docker provides a convenience script at [https://get.docker.com/](https://get.docker.com/) to install Docker into development environments non-interactively. The convenience script isn’t recommended for production environments, but it’s useful for creating a provisioning script tailored to your needs. Also refer to the [install using the repository](#install-using-the-repository) steps to learn about installation steps to install using the package repository. The source code for the script is open source, and you can find it in the [`docker-install` repository on GitHub](https://github.com/docker/docker-install).

Always examine scripts downloaded from the internet before running them locally. Before installing, make yourself familiar with potential risks and limitations of the convenience script:

*   The script requires `root` or `sudo` privileges to run.
*   The script attempts to detect your Linux distribution and version and configure your package management system for you.
*   The script doesn’t allow you to customize most installation parameters.
*   The script installs dependencies and recommendations without asking for confirmation. This may install a large number of packages, depending on the current configuration of your host machine.
*   By default, the script installs the latest stable release of Docker, containerd, and runc. When using this script to provision a machine, this may result in unexpected major version upgrades of Docker. Always test upgrades in a test environment before deploying to your production systems.
*   The script isn’t designed to upgrade an existing Docker installation. When using the script to update an existing installation, dependencies may not be updated to the expected version, resulting in outdated versions.

> Tip: preview script steps before running
> 
> You can run the script with the `--dry-run` option to learn what steps the script will run when invoked:
> 
> ```
> $ curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh
> $ sudo sh ./get-docker.sh --dry-run
> 
> 
> ```

This example downloads the script from [https://get.docker.com/](https://get.docker.com/) and runs it to install the latest stable release of Docker on Linux:

```
$ curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh
$ sudo sh get-docker.sh
Executing docker install script, commit: 7cae5f8b0decc17d6571f9f52eb840fbc13b2737
<...>


```

You have now successfully installed and started Docker Engine. The `docker` service starts automatically on Debian based distributions. On `RPM` based distributions, such as CentOS, Fedora, RHEL or SLES, you need to start it manually using the appropriate `systemctl` or `service` command. As the message indicates, non-root users can’t run Docker commands by default.

> **Use Docker as a non-privileged user, or install in rootless mode?**
> 
> The installation script requires `root` or `sudo` privileges to install and use Docker. If you want to grant non-root users access to Docker, refer to the [post-installation steps for Linux](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/#manage-docker-as-a-non-root-user). You can also install Docker without `root` privileges, or configured to run in rootless mode. For instructions on running Docker in rootless mode, refer to [run the Docker daemon as a non-root user (rootless mode)](https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/rootless/).

#### Install pre-releases

Docker also provides a convenience script at [https://test.docker.com/](https://test.docker.com/) to install pre-releases of Docker on Linux. This script is equal to the script at `get.docker.com`, but configures your package manager to use the test channel of the Docker package repository. The test channel includes both stable and pre-releases (beta versions, release-candidates) of Docker. Use this script to get early access to new releases, and to evaluate them in a testing environment before they’re released as stable.

To install the latest version of Docker on Linux from the test channel, run:

```
$ curl -fsSL https://test.docker.com -o test-docker.sh
$ sudo sh test-docker.sh


```

#### Upgrade Docker after using the convenience script

If you installed Docker using the convenience script, you should upgrade Docker using your package manager directly. There’s no advantage to re-running the convenience script. Re-running it can cause issues if it attempts to re-install repositories which already exist on the host machine.

Uninstall Docker Engine[🔗](#uninstall-docker-engine)
-----------------------------------------------------

1.  Uninstall the Docker Engine, CLI, containerd, and Docker Compose packages:
    
    ```
     $ sudo yum remove docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-buildx-plugin docker-compose-plugin docker-ce-rootless-extras
    
    
    ```
    
2.  Images, containers, volumes, or customized configuration files on your host are not automatically removed. To delete all images, containers, and volumes:
    
    ```
     $ sudo rm -rf /var/lib/docker
     $ sudo rm -rf /var/lib/containerd
    
    
    ```
    

You must delete any edited configuration files manually.

Next steps[🔗](#next-steps)
---------------------------

*   Continue to [Post-installation steps for Linux](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/).
*   Review the topics in [Develop with Docker](https://docs.docker.com/develop/) to learn how to build new applications using Docker.